This directory has contributed goodies and other useful,
but not critical programs in it. Each is documented, sparingly,
below.

usrModemUsage:

		This tool can be run from Cricket via an EXEC datasource
		to collect stats on the number of modems in use in a
		USR Total Control chassis. Give it hostname and community
		string on the commandline, and it will give you number of
		modems in use and number of modems in negotiation on lines 0
		and 1 of it's output.

pmlines.pl:

		A tool to tell you the total number of modem and ISDN
		sessions active on a Portmaster.

dump-targets:

		Lets you see what collector will be working on before you
		let the collector loose on your config tree. Useful
		for testing out brand new configs.

rrd-dump:

		A simple program to exercise RRD::File, but it could
		also be used to debug problems, etc. If RRD::File is
		lying to you, so will rrd-dump! Be warned!

test-url:

		A script to fetch a URL and tell you how long it took.
		This can be used via an EXEC datasource to monitor
		HTTP and FTP server response times.

listInterfaces:

		Give this script a router name and a community string
		and it will make a set of target definitions for you.
		Very useful!

rrd-tune:

		Use this to force an rrd "tune" operation on parts
		of your config tree. You'll need to use this to make
		changes to rrd-min, rrd-max, or rrd-heartbeat stick
		if you make them after the RRD files already exist.

relocate-perl:

		Used during install to fix the location of Perl in the
		#! lines of the scripts.

getFormat.c:

		If you need to port RRD::Format to your architecture,
		you can use this little C program to help out. See
		the comments in ../lib/RRD/Format.pm.

newsstats:
		This script is called by the news-server subtree to
		format stats from INN's ctlinnd command.

generate-statics:

		This is a nifty little tool to take snapshots of the
		GIFs for a bunch of targets and deposit them into
		a directory to be served as parts of static HTML documents.
		This can be used to make Cricket snappier, or to archive
		interesting GIFs in an automated way.

		This script depends on some tags in order to know where
		to put things. Put these tags in your root Defaults file
		in the target dictionary:

		  static-ranges    -> ranges to calculate for (such as d:y) 
		  static-path      -> file system path to place the image 
		  static-name      -> base file name for the image 

		For example:
 
		  static-ranges = d:w:m 
		  static-path   = %auto-base%/../public_html/static/%auto-target-path% 
		  static-name   = %auto-target-name% 

		You either need to edit the script to set $gBaseURL correctly,
		or you need to use -baseURL to set it. (Or, if you are
		feeling lucky, you can ignore it and hope I guessed the right
		URL for your machine. Don't laugh, it might work...)

		Now, put a tag named "generate-static" in any target
		which you want to be generated. Finally, run generate-statics
		from cron. Making HTML pages that incorporate the generated
		image files is left as an exercise to the reader.

